# Refine Project Scope

One of the leading causes of misalignment between wbLCA results is that they cover different project scopes. For instance, one model may contain only "structure, foundation, and envelope" while another will contain "structure, foundation, envelope, interiors, MEP, and site."

EPIC allows project teams to refine the scope of analysis, including or excluding parts of the building to meet reporting goals or to facilitate comparison with other projects.

## Scope Toggles

Turning off a toggle will remove a set of elements from the EPIC model and disable some fields in the **Base Case** and/or **Reduce Emissions** tabs.

#### Changes to project scope are non-destructive

Any decarbonization measures in excludes parts of the project scope are still saved with the project, but will become temporarily unavailable as long as they are out of scope. When their scope is restored, the values will reappear as last entered.

#### Scope is defined at the project level

The selected project scope is applied to the base case and all scenarios within a project. A user cannot exclude a scope in one scenario but include it in another; to be comparable, all scenarios must have the same scope.

### Life Cycle Phases

**A4-A5: Construction Emissions**\
Turning off this toggle will remove construction phase emissions—counted in the A4 and A5 life cycle phases—from the EPIC model This toggle will not affect any fields directly.

**D: Carbon Storage**\
Turning off this toggle will remove carbon stored in timber structural elements, carbon sequestered in landscape, and emissions avoided by excess energy production from on-site renewable from the EPIC model. This toggle will disable or enable the "Procure Responsibly Sourced Timber" toggle in the Reduce Emissions page.

### Assemblies

**Structure and Foundations**\
Structure and Foundations are always included.

**Envelope**\
Turning off this toggle will remove cladding, glazing, and roofing from the EPIC model, disabling the "Envelope Specification" and "Envelope Refurbishment Period" measures in the Reduce Emissions page.

**Interior Fitout**\
Turning off this toggle will remove interior fitouts from the EPIC model, disabling the "Interior Fitout Specification" and "Interior Fitout Refurbishment Period" measures in the Reduce Emissions page.

**MEP**\
Turning off this toggle will remove MEP (including onsite energy generation from the EPIC model's embodied carbon scope (the energy generated by PV panels will still be included), disabling the "MEP and PV Refurbishment Period" measure in the Reduce Emissions page.

**Site and Landscaping**\
Turning off this toggle will remove all site and landscaping measures from the EPIC model, disabling all related measures in both the Base Case and Reduce Emissions tabs.

**Refrigerants**\
Turning off this toggle will remove refrigerant emissions from EPIC's estimates of operational emissions.
